I'm Richard Dick Buck Wirus Lund. All those names
are somewhere involved with me because I was born
Richard Wirus Lund in August the 29th, 1920, in
Minneapolis, Minnesota. And as a child, I was
called Sonny. I was called Richard. And then in
school, I was called Dick. In high school, through
various songs and funny things of my stature, the
name Buck came up. It was a derivative of Buckskin,
which was a little song in those days. But anyway,
that's not necessary for this purpose. But
anyway, the name Buck came up. And then at A&M, I was
called Buck for the last couple of years because
it's always Fishwires, or Fish Jones, Fish
Detloff, in the early part of your college career.
But the Lund is... Lund is my father's name.
L-U-N-D. D. Uh-huh. L-U-N-D. And he came from
Dawson, Minnesota, and my mother came from Thief
River Falls, Minnesota. She was born in Eau
Claire, Wisconsin, but she was raised... Her
father, my grandfather, Wyrus, was a railroad
man, the Sioux Line Railroad. His family had come
from Alsace, and they had been brewmasters and
winemakers and so on. But when he got to Wisconsin,
somehow or another, he didn't continue in that. He
got into the railroad business and built
cofferdams for bridges and so on. But anyway, the
name Wirus was this name. My mother and father were
divorced in 1923, which was unusual for those
days. My mother was an early woman's libber. And
she had me by court decree. So I lived with her
family most of the time until 1934. And that was, I
lived with an Indian family. And you were where in
Minnesota? In Minnesota, in Minneapolis.
Minneapolis. And I lived with an Indian family.
And they were Chippewa Indians. And she was a
nurse, and they were off the reservation. But they
did Chautauquas. And he played football with Jim
Thorpe. at Carlisle. And of course I learned a lot
of Indian lore because they did Chautauquas. And I
got to be in those Chautauquas and had a little suit
and we did the different dances. Oh, we know. But
this is a side of you I never knew. That's
interesting. And it was real interesting for me.
My first memory of it was at Prior Lake and there was
a group of Indians there. And these people of
course were all educated, but they were like you
would imagine they were quite clannish. And I
remember Maude, their name was P-E-A-K-E, was
their American. His Indian name was Chief Little
Moose. And of course, squaws didn't seem to get
those exotic names like Little Moose. Did you keep
contact with those people over? Yes, I did. The
last one I have is a girl my age. She graduated from
the University of Minnesota. and worked for the
Ford Motor Company there in Minneapolis for many,
many years. And I kept up with her until about 10, 12
years ago. And her Indian name was Abidu. Abidu.
P-E-A-K-E. But there were two families, two
brothers, and I kept in touch with the brothers'
family. No. Louise, yeah. Yeah, Louise Peake was
the sister-in-law of the family that I grew up
with. Anyway, I was there until to Lindbergh
across the ocean that was in 1926 and 27 and then my
mother moved me she got she got ill in Chicago my
grandpa I went down I was there almost a school year
went to kindergarten in Chicago and my
grandfather took me then to the farm in Wisconsin
uh Colfax Wisconsin which is near Eau Claire,
Menominee, and Chippewa Falls, it's due east of
Minneapolis about 75 miles. Now it would be out
that interstate that goes east out of
Minneapolis. Yeah, I think I've taken that.
Uh-huh. It goes right by Menominee and Eau Claire.
Chippewa Falls sits off to the left. Yeah, to the
left. That's pretty country. Oh, it's just
beautiful. And of course, I was living in heaven. A
little kid, 14 years old, finished the eighth
grade in a one-room school. The closest paved road
was about 12 miles away. It would be Menominee. all
the other roads were dirt roads. They were county
roads and township roads. We had a township road,
which got a grader about every six months. The rest
of it was just old dust and gravel, you know.
And this is interesting. There was a one-room
building, and these schools were scattered just
about two to four miles apart. The teachers were
normal school educated. They had two years, but
all of them had taken special music. They taught
everything from music and drama to agriculture
and sports. And she was a Norwegian lady, Minda
Berg was her name, lived to be 92 or 93 years old,
died a couple of years ago. But you talk about
excellence in education, there were an average of
30 children in that I'm going to meet with my
classmates this summer. In that school? Is that
right? We're going to have a little reunion up on a
farm there near Menominee. She had all eight
grades. All the kids got to walk to school at least a
mile, except me. I lived across the road, so that
made me the janitor, for which I got paid 25 cents a
day, and they thought that was too much. So they
reduced my salary to 15 cents a day. I swept the
school and dusted and then had to clean the
blackboards and build the fire. Now, the other
boys put the wood down the chute to the furnace. We
didn't have a furnace in the basement. No plumbing
and no electricity. And so we had outdoor back
houses and we had great windows. It was cold in the
wintertime.
Yeah. Then they set up the fire for me. And all I came
in the morning was going to put kerosene on the wood
and then set the fire. Went and did my milking, just
about 100 yards away from my house to the school.
And then after a milking, usually four cows was
about mine at that age. I got the easy milkers, so my
uncle took the heifers. They're the hardest ones.
But we didn't have a milking machine. Of course,
now everything is electric. automated. And it's
these farms. Did he run a dairy? It was a dairy,
Guernsey Cattle. So we had to study agriculture,
one of the courses. But she did about 20
recitations a day. And those recitations seemed
to me averaged between, say, 10 and 20 minutes. But
I can't remember. But I remember everybody had at
least, oh, eight grades. We'd have two or so
recitations every day. And of course a lot of our
work in arithmetic was done at the blackboard.
Which kept you on your toes. You couldn't doze in
class. We did all our studying there. I never
studied at home. I didn't have anybody really to
help me at home. My uncle did finish high school,
but my grandparents hadn't. He was busy with women
and things like that. So I didn't have any help at
home. But anyway, this group, all six of us that
finished eighth grade in 1934 are living. All of us
finished college. And we were quite successful.
Everett Iverson, the man I'm going to meet this
summer, was head of instruction. Ran through
Illinois, Scott Air Force Base, the training for
Air Force technicians. And his cousin, who was the
grade behind us, was superintendent of schools
over in Pontiac, Michigan. Anyway. That's
interesting. Yeah. But you've even kept that
contact. It's incredible. Well, I've kept
contact with people. See, because everywhere I
met, everyone was my family. I didn't really have a
family at home. I've never really had. For
example, my family in my later years were high
school and Texas A&M. That's why I've been such a
devoted former student, that I immediately found
friends. And then in 1934, when I finished the
eighth grade, My mother wanted me to come to Texas
to be with her. She said the reason for that was that
I wouldn't know I had a mother, which is quite true.
How'd she get to Texas? She came here selling
knitback hose mending machines. And silk hosiery
was the fashion in those days, and they were quite
expensive. A good pair of silk hose would be,
average price, about $12.50. And if a woman
snagged it like they would a nylon today, then they
could afford to pay $1 or $0.50 or $1 to get it fixed.
And this hose mending machine, you could also do it
by hand, had a little latched hook, and you could
hook into the runner and knit it back right up to the
top. And then with a fine silk thread, you could do
an invisible mend behind it that you couldn't see
once the lady had put the hoser back on her feet. And
these machines were small, intricate machines
and took a lot of training. So when she sold a
machine, She had to stay to train people on it and so
on. And so she was way ahead of her time. She sold
paint, DuPont, Valentine. She really was, yeah.
I've got a picture of her painting the Ford in 1926,
Model T Ford, well, black, of course. Oh, yeah. But
they could paint them with a brush because the
paint wouldn't, that Duco paint was good. So
anyway. uh so i came to texas in 1934. and we're in
san antonio uh-huh she was set up in the old hicks
building which was on the corner of broadway and
houston on the third floor and had uh oh three girls
doing re-weaving she got that franchise from
washington they see a friend of hers a friend of
theirs had this uh process of taking threads or
material from the garment and re-weaving the
whole or damaged anything from a bullet hole to a
cigarette burn, usually on new clothes or good
clothes, because you were using new threads from
the chin seams and lapels, and if it was worn too
much, it would show. The new threads would show
against the worn threads. So new, good clothes,
but it was difficult to do. It's a lost art now.
There's only one girl. I sold the business when I
moved to A&M in 1961. which was involved in a mail
order business. And we did it for the tailors and
better stores. I say better stores because a less
expensive suit's not worth spending $5, $10 to get
it rewoven. So anyway, I did her pickup and
deliveries. That was my first job in San Antonio
was to, my allowance was based on my pickup and
deliveries every day, which I walked down Houston
Street over to, to the ladies' stores on Houston
Street, to Sears up to Joski's, and the men's
stores on Alamo Plaza, after school. And of course
when I got in the ROTC we had drum corps and drill
practice after school. What school did you go to?
Central Catholic High School. I was very unhappy
when I got there. My next question, I'm going to ask
you how you felt about all that. Well I didn't feel
well about it at all because I wasn't given any
choice. My choice would have been I had my dog,
fishing Yeah, you were happy. A river that ran
through the farm. It was just heaven for a kid. You
know, I had my rifle. I had a .22 rifle. I had a little
.410 shotgun, and here I was. And then all of a
sudden they're going to send me to this strange
place. I read Zane Gray novels all the way down here
and expecting to see that. Everybody still does, I
meant. Just another big city. So I was very unhappy
and wanted to go home. And I guess in my little mind
figured, If I misbehaved and didn't stay, she'd
send me back. And she outfoxed me. She put me in
Central Catholic High School. Then the brothers
and priests. Were those sisters? Okay, were they
sisters or brothers? Brothers and priests. All
brothers and priests. So when they took over, you
did your homework. Yes, sir, I bet you did. If you
started messing up, the principal went in and he
had my favorite, most not favorite weapon, the
razor strap, was on the wall. Yes. so kept you in
line well but the best thing is that i met these
wonderful young boys who befriended me and took me
right into there and made me feel like one of them
even though i wasn't a catholic so but i mean i still
have the afraid i make every high school reunion we
have one about every three four months there's
only about 25 of us left living out of 82 that
finished in 1938 yeah so uh yeah i I made these
wonderful friends that I still communicate with,
talk to, in fact, once a week. So things got better
for you? Oh, yeah, right away. The ROTC gave me
equality. We all had the same uniform, and I
learned if I'd press my uniform, it could pass
inspect, shoe shine, brass shine, belt buckle
shine. But I could win inspections, and I made
corporal in my first year. Then first sergeant my
next year and so on. So ROTC was a big factor. In
fact, the military has been a big factor all my
life. That's probably one of the few schools with a
high school ROTC. Oh, no. All of them had them.
Public high schools had them, too. Is that right?
Jefferson High School and Breckenridge and Texas
Military and Peacock Military. I don't remember
any in Louisiana. Well, LSU's probably still the
only school left that has compulsory first two
years ROTC. That's right. Yeah, I knew that. But
there's no Corps of Cadets there. I don't think
there has been in many years. But they may still
have required that. But except the Pentagon's not
too interested in teaching citizenship. That's
what that is, really. It's a good thing to know,
because you learn first aid, discipline, and all
that. But anyway, so from high school ROTC, There
was a couple of fellas had brothers at A&M, older
brothers. And I saw a man named Charlie Stout,
S-T-O-U-D-T, Stout. This guy was my same age. He
was my neighbor. He didn't go to Central. He went to
Jefferson. But his brother came home with his A&M,
had the boots on and the britches and this dark
olive green shirt. And the campaign hat, I
thought, if I could ever look like that, wouldn't
that be something? So I was kind of led to A&M by the
uniform and the ROTC. I knew pretty well, because I
already knew how to march and do all the commands.
In those days, it was very difficult. When you
drilled, you didn't have just a right face forward
march. It would be right face. You have to give the
command for your rifles.
But in those days, we used squads. It was right by
squads and a column of squads, right platoon,
right by. Very difficult. You had to really read
the manual and practice a lot to be the pizit man. I
can imagine. Yeah. So anyway, the ROTC is what led
me to A&M in 1938. And I was very confused, and I was
having so much fun. of being a sorry freshman, not
doing what I was supposed to do, and not getting
caught much at it, because I found out when they
were hazing, that's when I was janitor. You see, I
was janitor at the Petroleum Engineering
Building, and I missed all of the little programs
where you might be. So I was always at seeing
cadets, or I was always going someplace and stayed
away from the dorm during those hectic hours. But
they didn't bother me a whole lot. I just had a lot of
fun. When I found out right off, I didn't think I
ought to be an engineer. And about my sophomore
year, I knew I wasn't going to be an engineer. So I
went and talked to the dean. He said, I told him I
wanted to change to liberal arts. And he said,
well, you're going to lose practically half of
what you've taken. But if you switch to industrial
education, you won't lose anything. So go talk to
E.L. Williams and see if he'll take you. So at the
end of my sophomore year, I changed courses. Who
was the dean? Do you remember? Dean Gilchrist.
Gilchrist was the dean. And Dean Bolton was dean of
the college. G.O. Walton was president. And
George Moore was commandant, class of, what,
class of 06 or something? Eight, class of eight, I
think. So in those days, of course, it was all
military. We did have some postgraduate students
that were working on master's degrees in
engineering or agriculture. And I guess they gave
a doctorate in those days. I'm not sure. And we had
veterinary medicine students that lived in what
they called postgraduate hall. Called it PG Hall
over behind Walton. It was a wooden building.
Pretty nice building.
But I made such good friends here, just like high
school.
But really, if I could do it over again, I would have
majored in liberal arts, because I really enjoyed
it more than I did. I enjoyed history more and more.
I'll just say that I was more motivated on those
subjects than I was. You might have ended up a
college professor or something. You're probably
better off where you went. My roommate did, Dave
Finch. Anyway, my impression then of A&M was it was
a place of high concern for knowledge. I mean,
everybody was concerned about their grades and
studying and a lot of emphasis by the
upperclassmen to see that the freshmen were in
their rooms at night and at least had a book open in
front of them. You can't make them read, but you can
certainly make sure they got a book. make sure that
they go to class because their schedules are
posted on the door. Now, they're each room, each
student's schedule. Do you think that that kind of
concern slacked off for some time after the war or
was persisting? Because, you know, that was one of
the criticisms leveled at the core, that they
didn't stress education. There was too much
distraction in the 60s and 70s, I know, when I was
there. I don't know. That's part of just the
general... I can't really address myself to that
specifically because... I never had the feeling
that, I thought that there always was a certain
percentage of students that were real, highly
motivated. Well I think so too. And my guess is that
at that time people came to school realizing this
was their big opportunity. I'll say this though,
there was an element in most outfits that took the
hazing and the shouting matches and things like
that, what they called good bull, took that pretty
seriously. And that a shy freshman, very timid or
backward, would have a difficulty in responding
to that. He took it too seriously. And I think I
always took it as fun. I thought it was a play or
acting and things like that because of the stern
faces scolding and freshman year so so i thought
that was good so that when you got to be a sophomore
you had to learn to make make the ugly face and
demand attention and all that stuff but some of the
sophomores went overboard sure and this caused a
lot of distraction and it did cause a lot of people
to leave school in those days they couldn't leave
the corps they had to leave school period yeah so i
think it was a I just think it was overdone for
several years. But it's hard to be specific about
this. In generalities, I thought there was
a great deal of consternation in the
administration. If you look at the history,
you'll see that the Corps was compulsory, and then
it was non-compulsory. They tried that for a
while. The big thing you notice is that they had a
commandant, such as they have today, a man named
Well, when I was in school, it was all military.
Active duty, like General Moore. Colonel Moore
was active duty. But after the war, a man named Joe
Davis was class of 29, became commandant. And he
was a state employee paid by the university, and
his staff were all non-active duty, except for the
ROTC instructors. They were active duty. So you
had a mixture, like we do today. You have the
instructors in the classroom, The staff, the...
Vannevar mentioned that as a very important
element in the core relationship, was that it be a
university employee who's in authority. Like we
have now, General Darling, even though he's
retired, he's not on active duty. And remember
when Colonel Parsons was here, the former
students and others were telling him what had to
happen in the Corps and having programs help the
Corps. He says, wait a minute. He said, my boss is a
commanding general, 4th Army. I work for him. Now,
he says, my secondary boss is the dean of students
and the president of the university. He said, I
report to them. But he said, they're not
immediately who signs my paycheck. That makes a
difference. Yes. And he said, I have a staff here.
We'll take care of things in the Corps. but he said i
don't need any outside pressures and influence
tell me how to run the court he says i can be relieved
and replaced but as long as i'm in command as long as
i'm here in charge why don't listen and uh i kind of
feel that way today i'm not concerned about the
core that's general darling and his staff he has
staff of very capable people and he's certainly a
highly qualified man and he's going to do the right
he's going to do the very best he can because in this
changing world of youth, youth world. It's all
different. But so the fact we have a corps is
commendable. And I'll say one thing, the quality
is sheer high. It's not as big as we'd like for it to
be, but the people I know in the corps are certainly
outstanding. I want to come back to that. 1938,
and you're going to be in school through 1941. 42.
42.
I wasn't able to have a contract. I wasn't
classified my junior year. So I got a contract my
senior year. And I graduated in January of 43 with a
class of 43. That's why I go to both reunions. And I
have equal friends in both classes. Of course,
actually, the truth is I go to 41, 42, 43, and 44. All
the above. Yeah. I've
been to several student meetings, and they're
always asking me questions about what was it like
then, and what does the future look like? That's
what I'm going to ask you. I'm glad you've been
thinking about it. So you graduated in 43. Yes.
Went right into active duty. See, we didn't have
any summer camp, the six-week summer camp that was
required for ROTC reserve commissions. So the
Army didn't know what in the world to do, except
they decided, because they had the OCS program
going and the OCS curriculum was the same as the
company officer's course. The difference was the
OCS required a little more discipline and a little
more harassment and so on. But the basic studies in
communications and motor transport and
organization and gunnery was exactly the same as
the battery officer's course. They did two
things. They made corporals so we could be
admitted to OCS. We were inducted as privates in
our closest place. Houston was Ellington Field,
and San Antonio was Fort Sam Houston, and so on.
Every major city had an induction station. We were
all inducted in the service and issued a uniform
and made corporals and sent to basic schools. I
went to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, to the artillery
school. Others went to Fort Benning, others went
to Fort Monmouth, Signal Corps, Coastal
Artillery went down to Galveston, Fort Crockett,
and so on. We reported there to OCS. All the basic
arms, like Fort Knox was the armored school, and
Fort Riley was the cavalry. By the way, a lot of them
went into tank destroyer school at Fort Hood.
which used anti-tank guns with the infantry, and
they were organized in battalions and companies.
So when did you get your orders to OCS, before
graduation and everything? Was this all pretty
well? Well, it was all laid out, but we didn't
actually get them until we graduated with our, in
Guyon Hall. We were given a couple of tickets for
our family, because Guyon Hall didn't hold very
many people, because the graduates took up about
600, I guess, in our class that graduated. And
everybody that finished at that time, even though
they hadn't graduated, went on active duty. But
then they came back after one graduated. And we had
to go to our nearest station, and there we were
inducted. Then from there, we went by train to our
various posts. And so the answer is no. We had to
report to the induction station. for induction
into the Army. From there, we got our orders. We got
orders for promotion to corporal and for report to
Fort Sill, Oklahoma, for testing, physicals.
We'd already taken one physical up there. They
gave us an officer's physical. It was a little
different, a little more extensive. And we took
mathematics quizzes and exams for trigonometry
and algebra and geometry. mainly because
artillery has a lot of that in it. And you were in OCS
for, is it six weeks? Yeah, we went in in January,
and we, no, no, three and a half months. Three and a
half months, okay. See, January 23rd to May the
6th. Yeah, nearly four months, yeah. And at the end
you got your orders. We got our orders, and they
were commissioned second lieutenants, and the
United States Army Reserve. And we were given
assignments. Most of them were to the replacement
training center and officer pools, further
education. And most of us went to training
centers. In my case, it was the Field Artillery
Replacement Training Center in Fort Sill, where
we trained everything from cooks to bakers and
linemen and gun crews and things like that. And
then from there, the men were shipped out as
replacements. outfits activated, repenting
activation in the United States, and some of them
went to Europe. I was going to ask you, did most of
those out of Fort Sill go to Europe or the Pacific,
or both, I guess? Yeah, about half. It was just a
requisition filled either way by personnel, but
Europe took the most. Of course, as it had gotten up
time for the invasion, Europe was...
I got my orders...
Let's see, in May of 44, May, was that right? Yeah,
well, April, really, April 44, I got my orders to
report to Fort Hamilton, New York as a
replacement. And the next morning, I was supposed
to get on the train on Saturday morning, and they
knocked on my door at 5 o'clock and gave me orders
changing, I guess, all of us, about 50 of us, were
being transferred to Camp Breckenridge,
Kentucky, to a field artillery group pending
activation. And we didn't know it then, but these
battalions about, let's see, there were eight
battalions there. There was eight battalions at
Camp Chaffee. Sixteen battalions were
activated, organized from enlisted men that were
in the West Coast Harbor Defense, that is, the
Coast Artillery men. And these men were inducted I
mean, transferred to field artillery. These
battalions were to reinforce the fires of the
Rhine River crossing. They were 155 howitzer and
8-inch howitzer. That's medium and heavy
artillery to reinforce the fires. There wasn't
enough corps artillery to concentrate as much as
they needed for such an undertaking as crossing
the Rhine River. They didn't know where that was
going to be. And they had several sites. It
depended on the whole situation as to which site
they could use. And we were, but as it turned out, we
were too late by the time we got to the Red River.
They had long since, because they got the Remagen
Bridge. So that, we were just, we were a month too
late. We cruised past that a couple years ago and
took that Rhine cruise, and that thing's still
hanging out there. It's interesting. Isn't that
really? You can't tell how many lives that saved.
Imagine that. would have been crossing that
river. But see, this gave them time to get in the two
pontoon bridges. They got those in right away.
Boy, they couldn't have done it with the enemy fire
on them and artillery and everything else they had
on them. Okay, so you did go to Kentucky, though,
Camp Breckenridge. Oh, yeah. And then what
happened? We came back to Fort Sill. And you came
back to Fort Sill. As school troops. And then we had
to come to Fort Hood to take our battery test. And so
we didn't get overseas, you see, until the fall of
1944. And that's why we were too late for the Rhine
River crossing. And then we came back in 1945.
Where did they bring you in? In France, Holland?
Yes, we went into La Harpe. Yeah, that's where
almost everybody was. The equipment ships, in
fact, our ship was— delayed, and we had to go from
Southampton. They sent us across to Dieppe. And we
stayed in the abattoir, the slaughterhouse, was
our controlment area, which was about, I imagine,
about 50 kilometers or so from Laharm. And then I
took a skeleton gun crew and went down with our
equipment ship, came in there to unload them and
get the cosmoline off and get them prepared to go up
to move into Germany. So they sent you from there to
the front? Yeah. And what army? Well, we were in the
20th Corps, and that corps was moved from one army
to another. We ended up in the 3rd Army, and the 22nd
Corps was also there. We were in that for a little
while. They would shift these battalions and
these groups of artillery depending on the need
for it. See, in the Battle of the Balls, they didn't
need, they needed ammunition more than they
needed anymore. And so in order to get the
ammunition, well, they just switched all these
battalions to the north and were coming up, I
guess, sort of behind the Third Army, the 20th
Corps. You know, when you're at that level, you
don't really know a lot of this. No, you don't ask.
It wasn't until I read the history of World War II to
find out. Yeah, what you had done. Okay, so you were
in Germany then until... until August of 1945.
Where were you when the war ended? We were right
there at Burncastle on the Moselle. Beautiful,
beautiful. We were supposed to be security
guards, and our main problem was keeping our
enlisted men away from the military government
people, because the military government was
supposed to enforce the fraternization order.
And we weren't supposed to fraternize with the
German citizens. Well, those beautiful German
girls and our men hadn't been around ladies, so
this caused a problem. Because I was a captain, and
so the military government was a captain, and he
was fussing about my men walking down the street
with these German girls, so I had to get that
correct. Then he wanted us to court-martial one of
them, and I had more to do. We were looking mainly
for S.S. people that had escaped. They had a big
concentration. We went up on Bad Neuheim. There
was a big POW camp there. And they just screened
them temporarily. They were looking for SS. And
they screened all these men. It was right in the
summer of 45 there. It was real warm. And some
interesting things happened. They had a whole
compound of German women who had been in the
anti-aircraft artillery. They were gun crews for
88 millimeters. and other anti-aircraft
weapons. And they'd take sun baths, and these
German men would get over in their compound and
startle them, you know. And the ladies sometimes
had their bras unhooked, and this caused
hilarious—it was sexual harassment is what it
was. And how long did they keep you in Germany now
after the war? Well, we came back to go to Japan. Oh,
okay. They pulled you right out. Yeah. We should
have stayed, but we didn't. We were actually on the
high seas. We came back to Le Havre again, and we
were on our way to someplace in the Pacific. And so
they turned us in. We came into Charleston, South
Carolina instead of going through New York or— We
didn't get to the Panama Canal. See, we were on the
high seas someplace. And they diverted us into
Charleston. We ended up in Camp Beale,
California. You took the train? Uh-huh, took the
train from Charleston to Camp Beale. And then in
Camp Beale, what month is that? Do you remember?
Oh, yeah, just about the time they dropped the
A-bomb. Okay, August. August, yeah. Forty-five.
Uh-huh. So you were on the way, though. I was on the
way, yeah, yeah. Oh, they just had hundreds of
ships, maybe more than hundreds. And your war
ended in California? In California, yeah. And
then they transferred everybody, I guess, in
September, October, maybe in the fall there,
September, October, because I remember coming to
a football game down here at College Station from
Fort Hood. They transferred us to Fort Hood,
Texas, and we joined the 2nd Armored Division. at
Fort Hood. And in other words, we were integrated,
you might say, into the Second Army Division. And
then later, we stayed in and reorganized,
restructured. I didn't get out of the Army until a
year later. When was my next question? 1946. Oh,
OK. And had you any option? Yes, I could have stayed
in if I would have taken the exams for integration
into regular service. And I really wanted to in a
way, but my wife's family was overseas, her mother
and father. He was in the engineer corps. And my
situation was very difficult. She had a baby while
I was gone. And as soon as I got home, there was
another one. And so I would have had to go to Korea.
And so I couldn't have taken any family with me. So I
decided I'd abandon her enough, and so I got out of
the Army then. But I went right into the Reserve.
That was in August, you said, of 46. No, let's see,
October, September, the fall of 46.
And so you're coming back to San Antonio? Came back
to San Antonio, uh-huh. And I took over my mother's
weaving business, and I got that. going again and
got some girls trained. I had a girl in Omaha,
Nebraska that came down. She was the best one we
ever had. We had her during the war. Her husband was
in the Army there at Fort Sam. So once she got two or
three good girls trained, plus myself and my wife,
we all learned this reweaving technique. Hose
mending was pretty well out of the business by then
because nylons had come on the scene. And nylons
were inexpensive. They were cheap, you might say.
And silk hosiery was just too expensive. And so the
hose mending went up, but the reweaving business
was pretty good. But like any other small
business, it didn't work too well for me because
labor costs, you had to pay at least 50% labor. Then
by the time you got workman's comp, and if you had
three or more employees, you had to have
unemployment comp, and you had to have a
hospitalization. See, this is not new. We had to do
all these things in those days. We had to take out
withholding taxes, social security. And I had a
high school classmate of mine who helped me with
all that sort of regulations and bookkeeping that
a business had to have, because I hadn't taken any
business courses at A&M. So I had to get a CPA to help
me set up my books and help me with the forms I needed
for all of that. But I just didn't make much money
out of it. So in 1948, I had a chance for a wonderful
job with the state. This was organizing National
Guard units, and this is where my knowledge of A&M
men came in. So we organized units in the Rio Grande
Valley and out in West Texas. And actually, I was
doing that when the- What was your rank when you
left service? Captain. Actually, when I went in
the reserve, I got promoted to major. And
let's see. Oh yeah, then I went to work for the, I
went back in the Army again in 51.
But you were with the state, with the National
Guard until 51. Uh-huh, from 48 to 51. And I was on
active duty through 54, 55, 55.
Yeah,
I got out in 55.
And what rank are you now? Lieutenant Colonel. And
where were you most of the time, 51 to 55? No, mostly
I was in the I was in Fort Sill, and I was in Fort Knox
mostly. I stayed at Fort Knox. I went to the armored
school. I've got my certificate at Fort Knox. And
then I stayed there for quite a while and went to
Europe with a crew on temporary duty. And I came
back and took some special courses in nuclear
weapons. And then I went to Command General Staff
School for a year. So that took up my time. I did not
go to Korea. I had a terrible guilty conscience
about that. No more.
So you're going to get out in 55. Yeah. And I went to
work for the City Public Service Board in San
Antonio in the personnel department. What were
you doing there? Well, actually, I was training. I
had to take the cadet course and go through the
whole company and write papers and dissertations
on each department. What was the title again? Gas
and Electric Utility of Bexar County. And
that was real interesting to me. I really enjoyed,
I was a real education in electrical engineering,
mechanics, understanding power plants,
electric distribution, and the underground
systems of big cities and certain the elite
neighborhoods that had underground electric
transformers underground and distribution
underground and everything. I was mystified by
that, how the tunnels, they tunneled under the
cities and put all that stuff together. You never
think about it, do you? Also, I can look at a power
line and know what wattage it's carrying and
understand the different transformers. They
reduce it down to the 220, the 110 that brings it in
the house. you distributed about 4,000 KW. So it
was real education for me. And the gas
distribution, too. See, they had the gas company.
And these were not really owned by the city,
because the bonding company, the Harris Trust of
Chicago, really owned those companies, because
they didn't cost the city a penny. See, they were
all bond, municipal bonds, or construction
bonds. The money was borrowed, paid back by
revenues. Then excess revenues were given to the
city in lieu of taxes, as opposed to a private power
company like Houston Lighting and Power and so on.
San Antonio actually was, well, you could say
city-owned because it was called City Public
Service Board, gas and electric. The city owned
the water, too, of course. Private investment. It
was very efficient, and it was operated under the
same structure that a private company was,
modeled after the same employee situation and the
same qualifications. So how long did you stay with
the city? Well, I stayed with them until 1959,
and I had a chance to go to an advertising company, a
sharp company out of Austin. gave me the chance to
sell advertising for school book covers and other
institutional advertising. I had to travel
throughout South Texas. It was called Sharp?
SHARP, Sharpton Company. Are they still there? I
don't think so. I don't think so. The people who
owned it are not—in fact, that man was a lawyer.
Bill Pittenger was a lawyer. But it was a pretty
good deal. It made good money. Yeah, I traveled to
San Antonio and all of South Texas. I called on
institutional advertisers and school
superintendents. And I sold really whatever they
cut me. They didn't have different, like
Coca-Cola or the big banks and so on like that. We
sold some billboards. So they were kind of a
multimedia company. But the big thing was the
school book covers. They had a big printing shop
there. And they printed and distributed these
school book covers all over Texas. It was law that
they had to, and that was really nice. That gave me
more time to devote to A&M. Actually, I was
president of the San Antonio A&M Club when I was
with the public service. And then I got on the board
of the former students when I was with this other
company, It gave me a chance to be on the campus a lot
more for board meetings and council meetings and
committee meetings and so on. So I had a chance to
see what A&M was doing in the late 50s. And the
director of the Former Students Association? It
was Dick Hervey. Dick Hervey. Uh-huh. See,
McQuillan had been director from 28 to 47. And then
Hervey came in at 47. And I joined him in 61.
That was a pretty awesome experience. I'll tell
you how this happened.